 AI-Based Stock Price Trend Prediction System(Educational) Submi&ed in par.al fulﬁllment of requirements  for the degree of B.Tech. (Computer Science & Engineering) by Himanshu Goyal (2415000685) Ridam MiGal (2415001273) Abhishek (2415000041) Priyanshu Yadav (2415001214) Under Supervision of:  Dr. Sayantan Sinha Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons GLA University, 17km Stone, NH-19, Delhi-Mathura Road, P.O. Chaumuhan, Mathura-281 406 (U.P.) India Batch 2024-2028 
 GLA/CEA/FR/14/2025-26  GLA University, Mathura Department of CEA CerRﬁcate This is to cer.fy that Mini Project en.tled AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on System(Educa.onal) is a bonaﬁde work of ”Himanshu Goyal” (2415000685) submi&ed to the GLA University, Mathura in par.al fulﬁllment of the requirements for the award of the degree of ”Bachelor of Technology ” in Computer Science & Engineering.   (Name and sign) (Dr. Rahul Pradhan) Guide Program Chair-AI & Data Science 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch i 
 GLA University, Mathura Department of CEA CerRﬁcate This is to cer.fy that Mini Project en.tled AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on System(Educa.onal) is a bonaﬁde work of ”Ridam MiGal” (2415001273) submi&ed to the GLA University, Mathura in par.al fulﬁllment of the requirements for the award of the degree of ”Bachelor of Technology ” in Computer Science & Engineering.   (Name and sign) (Dr. Rahul Pradhan) Guide Program Chair-AI & Data Science 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch i 
 GLA University, Mathura Department of CEA CerRﬁcate This is to cer.fy that Mini Project en.tled AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on System(Educa.onal) is a bonaﬁde work of Abhishek (2415000041) submi&ed to the GLA University, Mathura in par.al fulﬁllment of the requirements for the award of the degree of ”Bachelor of Technology ” in Computer Science & Engineering.   (Name and sign) (Dr. Rahul Pradhan) Guide Program Chair-AI & Data Science 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch i 
  
CerRﬁcate of Approval of Supervisor The Mini Project report AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on System(Educa.onal) en.tled  by Priyanshu Yadav (2415001214) is approved for the award of Bachelor’s of Technology Degree in Computer Science & Engineering.  Supervisor Date: 2/05/2026 Place: Mathura-281406 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch ii 
  
DECLARATION I declare that this wri&en submission represents my ideas in my own words and where others’ ideas or work have been included. I have adequately cited and referenced the original source. I also declare that I have adhered to all principles of academic honesty and integrity and have not misinterpreted or fabricated or falsiﬁed any idea/data/fact/source in my submission. I understand that any viola.on of the above will be cause for disciplinary ac.on by the Ins.tute and can also evoke the penal ac.on from the sources which have thus not been properly cited or from whom proper permission has not been taken when needed.  Signature  Name of Student and Roll No Date: 2026-05-02 Place: Mathura - 281406 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch iii 
 Abstract Stock market analysis is a complex and dynamic process that involves handling large volumes of .me-dependent ﬁnancial data. The prices of stocks ﬂuctuate con.nuously due to various inﬂuencing factors such as economic condi.ons, company performance, market sen.ment, government policies, and global events. Because of this high level of uncertainty and vola.lity, accurately predic.ng stock price movements has always been a challenging task. Tradi.onal methods of stock analysis, which rely on manual calcula.ons and basic sta.s.cal techniques, o`en fail to process large datasets eﬃciently and may lead to inaccurate or inconsistent results. With the rapid advancement of Ar.ﬁcial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), new opportuni.es have emerged for analyzing ﬁnancial data more eﬀec.vely. Machine learning algorithms have the capability to process large amounts of historical data, iden.fy hidden pa&erns, and make predic.ons based on learned trends. This project focuses on the development of an AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on system for educa.onal and analy.cal purposes. The system uses historical stock price data of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS), obtained from Yahoo Finance, to train machine learning models and generate predic.ons about future stock price trends. The proposed system follows a structured approach that includes data collec.on, data preprocessing, exploratory data analysis, feature engineering, model development, training, tes.ng, and evalua.on. Data preprocessing ensures that the dataset is clean, consistent, and free from missing or redundant values. Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) helps in understanding pa&erns and trends within the dataset using graphical representa.ons. Feature engineering is applied to improve model performance by crea.ng addi.onal meaningful a&ributes such as moving averages and lag features. Machine learning models are implemented using Python libraries such as Pandas, NumPy, and Scikit-learn. These models are trained on historical data to learn pa&erns and rela.onships within the .me-series dataset. The performance of the models is evaluated using appropriate metrics and by comparing predicted values with actual stock prices. To enhance user interac.on and visualiza.on, a web-based frontend is developed using Next.js, which allows users to view graphical comparisons of predicted and actual trends in an intui.ve manner. The primary objec.ve of this project is to provide prac.cal exposure to AI and ML techniques in the domain of ﬁnancial data analysis. It also aims to demonstrate how historical data can be u.lized for trend predic.on and to highlight the limita.ons of AI models in real-world scenarios. Since stock markets are highly inﬂuenced by unpredictable external factors such as news events, poli.cal decisions, and investor sen.ment, the predic.ons generated by the system may not always be perfectly accurate. In conclusion, this project serves as an eﬀec.ve learning tool for understanding .me-series analysis, machine learning, and data visualiza.on. It provides a strong founda.on for further research and development in the ﬁeld of stock market predic.on and can be extended in the future by incorpora.ng deep learning models, real-.me data integra.on, and sen.ment analysis techniques.  Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch iv  Contents AbstractivList of FiguresviiList of TablesviiiList of AbbreviaRonsix1 IntroducRon21.1 Descip.on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .21.2 Problem Formula.on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31.3 Mo.va.on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .31.4 Proposed Solu.on . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .41.5 Scope of the Project . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .42 Literature review53 System Analysis63.1 Func.onal Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63.2 Non Func.onal Requirements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63.3 Speciﬁc Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .63.4 UseCase Diagrams and descrip.on . . . . . . . . . . . . .7Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 BatchvCONTENTS CONTENTS 4.Analysis Modeling 8 4.1.Data Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 4.2.Ac.vity Diagrams / Class Diagram  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 4.3.Func.onal Modeling . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8 5.Project  design 9 5.1.Architectural Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 5.2.User Interface Design . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 6.ImplementaRon 10 6.1.Algorithms / Methods Used 10 ...............................................................6.2.Working of the project 10 .....................................................................7.Results 11 8.Conclusions and Future Scope 12 8.1.Conclusion 12 ..........................................................................................8.2.FutureScope 12 ........................................................................................References 12 Appendix 13 Paper PublicaRon 13 Acknowledgements 19 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch vi  List of Figures 1.Sample image  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch vii  List of Tables 1.Sample table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch viii LIST OF TABLES LIST OF TABLES List Of Abbrevia.ons BMS  Ba&ery Management System isoSPI Isolated SPI communica.on OCV Open-Circuit Voltage PEC Packet Error Code HV High Voltage LV Low Voltage SAE Society of Automo.ve Engineers AUTOSAR  AUTomo.ve Open System ARchitecture VCU Vehicle Control Unit ECU Electronic Control Unit EMI Electromagne.c Interference RWD Rear Wheel Drive LCS Launch Control System TCS Trac.on Control System PMSM Permanent-Magnet Synchronous Motor CAN Controller Area Network SPI Serial Peripheral interface UART Universal Asynchronous Receiver/Transmi&er 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch ix  Chapter 1 IntroducRon The stock market is a complex and dynamic system where prices ﬂuctuate due to various factors. This project uses Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning techniques to analyze historical data and predict future stock price trends. 1.DescipRon The stock market is a dynamic and complex system that plays a crucial role in the global economy by enabling companies to raise capital and investors to participate in ﬁnancial growth. Stock prices ﬂuctuate continuously due to various inﬂuencing factors such as company performance, economic conditions, government policies, market sentiment, and global events. Due to this high level of volatility and uncertainty, predicting stock price trends accurately is a challenging task.With the advancement of Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI) and Machine Learning (ML), it has become possible to analyze large volumes of historical stock data efﬁciently. Machine learning techniques can identify hidden patterns and relationships within time-series data, which are not easily visible through traditional analysis methods.This project focuses on developing an AI-Based Stock Price Trend Prediction system that uses historical data to analyze patterns and predict future stock price trends. The system also includes a web-based interface to visualize predicted and actual stock prices, making the results easier to understand and interpret.
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 1 1.2. PROBLEM FORMULATION CHAPTER 1.  INTRODUCTION 
Figure 1.1: Sample image 2.Problem FormulaRon The stock market generates a massive amount of data on a daily basis, including stock prices, trading volumes, and other ﬁnancial indicators. This data is highly complex, .me-dependent, and inﬂuenced by mul.ple internal and external factors. Tradi.onal methods of stock analysis rely on manual calcula.ons and basic sta.s.cal techniques, which are not eﬃcient for handling large datasets. Moreover, stock prices exhibit non-linear behavior and are aﬀected by unpredictable factors such as economic crises, poli.cal decisions, and sudden market changes. As a result, it becomes diﬃcult to extract meaningful insights and predict future trends accurately. Therefore, there is a need for an automated system that can eﬃciently process large amounts of historical data, iden.fy pa&erns, and provide predic.ve insights using Ar.ﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning techniques. 3.MoRvaRon The mo.va.on behind this project arises from the limita.ons of tradi.onal stock market analysis methods and the growing importance of data-driven decision-making. Manual analysis of stock data is .me-consuming, error-prone, and ineﬃcient when dealing with large datasets. 
Machine learning provides a powerful solu.on to this problem by enabling automated data analysis and predic.on. By applying ML techniques, it is possible to improve the accuracy of trend analysis and gain deeper insights into stock price behavior. Addi.onally, this project provides prac.cal exposure to real-world applica.ons of AI and ML in ﬁnancial data analysis. It helps students understand concepts such as .me-series analysis, data preprocessing, and predic.ve modeling, which are essen.al in the ﬁeld of data science. 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 2 1.4. PROPOSED SOLUTION CHAPTER 1.  INTRODUCTION 4.Proposed SoluRon The proposed system is an AI-based stock price trend prediction system that uses machine learning techniques to analyze historical stock data and predict future trends. The system follows a structured workﬂow that includes data collection, preprocessing, feature engineering, model training, testing, and evaluation.Historical stock price data is collected from reliable sources such as Yahoo Finance. The data is then cleaned and preprocessed to ensure accuracy and consistency. Machine learning models are trained using this data to learn patterns and relationships within the dataset.The system also includes a web-based frontend developed using modern frameworks such as Next.js, which allows users to interact with the system and visualize predicted and actual stock price trends through graphs and charts.This approach improves efﬁciency, reduces manual effort, and provides a better understanding of stock market behavior through data-driven insights.5.Scope of the Project The scope of this project is limited to the analysis of historical stock price data and the prediction of future trends using machine learning techniques. The system is designed for academic and educational purposes and aims to provide hands-on experience in AI and data science.The project focuses on:•Historical data analysis•Machine learning-based trend prediction•Visualization of predicted vs actual resultsHowever, the project does not include real-time stock trading, ﬁnancial advisory services, or commercial deployment. The predictions generated by the system should not be used for real-world investment decisions, as stock markets are highly volatile and inﬂuenced by unpredictable external factors. Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 3  Chapter 2 Literature review Stock price prediction has been a widely researched topic in the ﬁeld of ﬁnance, Artiﬁcial Intelligence (AI), and Machine Learning (ML). Over the years, researchers have explored various techniques ranging from traditional statistical models to advanced deep learning approaches in order to predict stock market trends. Due to the highly volatile and non-linear nature of stock markets, achieving accurate predictions remains a challenging task.Earlier approaches to stock market prediction were primarily based on statistical and econometric models such as Moving Averages, Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average (ARIMA), and linear regression. These models rely on historical data and assume linear relationships between variables. While these techniques are useful for understanding general trends, they often fail to capture complex patterns and non-linear relationships present in real-world ﬁnancial data. Moreover, these models are limited in handling large datasets and dynamic market conditions.With the advancement of computing power and data availability, machine learning techniques have gained popularity in stock price prediction. Machine learning algorithms such as Decision Trees, Random Forest, Support Vector Machines (SVM), and k-Nearest Neighbors (k-NN) have been widely used to analyze stock market data. These algorithms are capable of learning patterns from historical data and making predictions without explicitly programmed rules. Research studies have shown that machine learning models can outperform traditional statistical methods in many cases, especially when dealing with large and complex datasets.Among various machine learning approaches, supervised learning techniques are commonly used for stock price prediction. In supervised learning, models are trained using labeled datasets where input features (such as historical prices, volume, and technical indicators) are mapped to output values (future prices or trends). However, the performance of these models largely depends on the quality of data and feature selection. Improper data preprocessing or irrelevant features can signiﬁcantly affect the accuracy of predictions.In recent years, deep learning techniques have emerged as powerful tools for time-series forecasting. Models such as Artiﬁcial Neural Networks (ANN), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNN), and Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) networks have shown promising results in capturing temporal dependencies in stock price data. LSTM, in particular, is widely used due to its ability to retain long-term dependencies and handle sequential data effectively. Several research studies have demonstrated that LSTM-based models can provide better prediction accuracy compared to traditional machine learning models.Another important aspect explored in literature is feature engineering and the use of technical indicators. Indicators such as Moving Average (MA), Relative Strength Index (RSI), and Moving Average Convergence Divergence (MACD) are commonly used to enhance model performance. These indicators help in capturing trends, momentum, and volatility in stock prices, which improves the predictive capability of models.In addition to technical analysis, recent studies have also focused on sentiment analysis using news articles, social media data, and ﬁnancial reports. Natural Language Processing (NLP) techniques are used to analyze public sentiment and its impact on stock prices. Research suggests that incorporating sentiment data along with historical price data can improve prediction accuracy, as market sentiment plays a signiﬁcant role in inﬂuencing stock movements.Despite signiﬁcant advancements, stock price prediction remains a complex problem due to several limitations. One major challenge is the unpredictable nature of stock markets, which are inﬂuenced by external factors such as political events, economic changes, global crises, and investor behavior. Most models rely heavily on historical data and may fail to adapt to sudden market ﬂuctuations. Additionally, overﬁtting is a common issue in machine learning models, where the model performs well on training data but poorly on unseen data.Furthermore, the availability and quality of data also affect model performance. Missing values, noisy data, and inconsistent datasets can lead to inaccurate predictions. Data preprocessing and normalization play a crucial role in improving model accuracy and reliability.This project builds upon the concepts and techniques discussed in the literature by implementing machine learning models for stock price trend prediction using historical data. The focus is on understanding the practical implementation of AI techniques, analyzing their performance, and identifying their limitations in real-world scenarios. Unlike commercial systems, this project is intended for educational purposes and aims to provide hands-on experience in time-series analysis, machine learning, and data visualization.In conclusion, literature suggests that while machine learning and deep learning techniques have improved the ability to analyze and predict stock price trends, achieving perfect accuracy is still not possible due to market uncertainty. Continuous research is being conducted to enhance prediction models by incorporating advanced algorithms, real-time data, and sentiment analysis. This project contributes to this ﬁeld by providing a practical implementation and highlighting both the strengths and limitations of AI-based stock prediction systems.In addition to traditional and machine learning-based approaches, hybrid models have also gained attention in recent research. Hybrid models combine multiple techniques, such as integrating statistical methods with machine learning or combining different machine learning algorithms to improve prediction performance. For example, some studies combine ARIMA models with neural networks to capture both linear and non-linear patterns in stock price data. These hybrid approaches often provide better accuracy compared to using a single model, as they leverage the strengths of multiple techniques.Another important research direction in stock market prediction is the use of ensemble learning methods. Ensemble techniques such as Random Forest and Gradient Boosting combine the predictions of multiple models to improve overall performance and reduce errors. These methods help in minimizing overﬁtting and increasing prediction stability. Research studies have shown that ensemble models can outperform individual machine learning models, especially when dealing with highly noisy and complex datasets like stock market data.Moreover, feature selection and dimensionality reduction techniques have also been widely explored in literature. Techniques such as Principal Component Analysis (PCA) are used to reduce the number of input features while retaining the most important information. This helps in improving computational efﬁciency and reducing model complexity. Proper feature selection ensures that only relevant data is used for training, which enhances model performance and accuracy.In recent years, reinforcement learning has also been explored for stock market prediction and trading strategies. Unlike supervised learning, reinforcement learning involves training an agent to make decisions based on rewards and penalties. The agent learns to take actions (buy, sell, hold) in order to maximize proﬁt over time. Although reinforcement learning shows promising results, it requires a large amount of training data and computational resources, making it more complex to implement.Cloud computing and big data technologies have also contributed signiﬁcantly to stock market analysis. With the availability of large-scale data storage and processing platforms, it has become easier to handle vast amounts of ﬁnancial data in real time. Technologies such as distributed computing enable faster data processing and model training, which is essential for large-scale ﬁnancial applications.Another emerging trend in literature is the use of explainable AI (XAI) in ﬁnancial predictions. Since machine learning models, especially deep learning models, often behave like black boxes, it becomes difﬁcult to understand how predictions are made. Explainable AI techniques aim to provide transparency by explaining the decision-making process of models. This is particularly important in ﬁnancial applications where trust and interpretability are crucial.Despite these advancements, several challenges still exist in stock price prediction. One of the key challenges is data non-stationarity, where statistical properties of stock data change over time. Models trained on past data may not perform well in future conditions due to changing market dynamics. Additionally, external factors such as geopolitical events, natural disasters, and sudden economic changes can signiﬁcantly impact stock prices, making accurate prediction even more difﬁcult.Another limitation highlighted in research is the issue of overﬁtting and underﬁtting. Overﬁtting occurs when a model learns noise in the training data instead of actual patterns, resulting in poor generalization. Underﬁtting occurs when the model is too simple to capture underlying patterns. Balancing model complexity is therefore essential for achieving optimal performance.Security and ethical considerations are also important aspects discussed in literature. AI-based ﬁnancial systems must ensure data privacy and security, especially when dealing with sensitive ﬁnancial information. Additionally, there are concerns about the misuse of AI in stock trading, such as market manipulation and unfair advantages, which need to be addressed through proper regulations.This project takes inspiration from these research advancements and focuses on implementing a machine learning-based approach for stock price trend prediction. While advanced techniques such as deep learning and sentiment analysis are acknowledged, the primary goal is to build a foundational system that demonstrates the practical application of AI in ﬁnancial data analysis.
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 4  Chapter 3 System Analysis 1.FuncRonal Requirements Functional requirements deﬁne what the system should do. The following are the key functional requirements of the AI-Based Stock Price Trend Prediction system:1.User Input Handling The system shall allow users to select or input stock data for analysis.2.Data Collection Module The system shall fetch historical stock price data from reliable sources such as Yahoo Finance.3.Data Preprocessing The system shall clean and preprocess the collected data by handling missing values, removing duplicates, and normalizing the dataset.4.Feature Engineering The system shall generate additional features such as moving averages and lag values to improve model performance.5.Model Training The system shall train machine learning models using historical stock price data.6.Prediction Generation The system shall predict future stock price trends based on trained models.7.Visualization Module The system shall display predicted and actual stock price trends using graphs and charts.8.Result Comparison The system shall compare predicted results with actual values for evaluation.9.User Interface Interaction The system shall provide an interactive web-based interface for user interaction.10.Error Handling The system shall handle invalid inputs and system errors gracefully.2.Non FuncRonal Requirements Non-functional requirements deﬁne how the system performs and its quality attributes:1.Performance The system should process data efﬁciently and generate predictions within a reasonable time.2.Usability The system should have a user-friendly interface that is easy to navigate.3.Reliability The system should produce consistent and reliable outputs under normal conditions.4.Scalability The system should be able to handle larger datasets in future upgrades.5.Maintainability The system should be easy to update and maintain.6.Security The system should ensure safe handling of data and prevent unauthorized access.7.Availability The system should be accessible whenever required without major downtime.8.Accuracy The system should aim to provide reasonably accurate predictions based on available data.3.Speciﬁc Requirements Hardware Requirements •Computer/Laptop with minimum 4GB RAM •Processor: Intel i3 or above •Internet connec.on Sobware Requirements •Programming Language: Python •Libraries: Pandas, NumPy, Scikit-learn, Matplotlib •Frontend: Next.js / React •Backend: Python (FastAPI) •IDE: Visual Studio Code / Jupyter Notebook •Data Source: Yahoo Finance  Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 5 3.4.  USECASE DIAGRAMS AND DESCRIPTIOCNHAPTER 3.  SYSTEM ANALYSIS 4.UseCase Diagrams and descripRon Use Case Diagram (Text Representation)Actors:•UserUse Cases:•Input stock data•Request prediction•View results•Compare predicted vs actual trendsUse Case DescriptionUse Case 1: Input Stock Data•Actor: User•Description: User selects or inputs stock data for analysis•Pre-condition: System is running•Post-condition: Data is sent for processingUse Case 2: Generate Prediction•Actor: User•Description: System processes data and generates predictions using ML models•Pre-condition: Data is preprocessed•Post-condition: Prediction results are generatedUse Case 3: View Results•Actor: User•Description: User views graphical representation of predicted and actual data•Pre-condition: Prediction is completed•Post-condition: Results displayed on screenUse Case 4: Compare Results•Actor: User•Description: System compares predicted vs actual stock trends•Pre-condition: Both predicted and actual data available•Post-condition: Comparison graph is displayed Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 6  Chapter 4 Analysis Modeling 1.Data Modeling Data modeling is used to deﬁne the structure of data and its relationships within the system. Since this project involves storage and processing of historical stock data and predicted results, an Entity-Relationship (E-R) model is used.Entities and AttributesThe system consists of the following main entities:1. Stock_Data•stock_id (Primary Key)•date•open_price•high_price•low_price•close_price•volume2. Prediction•prediction_id (Primary Key)•stock_id (Foreign Key)•predicted_price•actual_price•prediction_dateRelationshipsThere exists a one-to-many (1:N) relationship between Stock_Data and Prediction. One stock record can have multiple prediction records associated with it.Normalization (Up to 3NF)The database is normalized up to the Third Normal Form (3NF):•First Normal Form (1NF): All attributes contain atomic values and there are no repeating groups.•Second Normal Form (2NF): All non-key attributes are fully dependent on the primary key.•Third Normal Form (3NF): There is no transitive dependency; all attributes depend only on the primary key.Data Dictionary
2.AcRvity Diagrams / Class Diagram Activity DiagramThe activity diagram represents the workﬂow of the system:1.StartTable NameAttributeData TypeDescriptionStock_Datastock_idIntegerUnique identifierdateDateTrading dateopen_priceFloatOpening pricehigh_priceFloatHighest pricelow_priceFloatLowest priceclose_priceFloatClosing pricevolumeIntegerTrading volumePredictionprediction_idIntegerUnique identifierstock_idIntegerForeign key referencepredicted_priceFloatPredicted stock priceactual_priceFloatActual stock priceprediction_dateDateDate of prediction2.Collect historical stock data3.Perform data preprocessing4.Apply feature engineering5.Train machine learning model6.Generate predictions7.Visualize predicted vs actual data8.EndThis diagram shows the step-by-step execution of the system from data collection to ﬁnal output generation.Class DiagramThe system is divided into the following main classes:1. DataHandler•collectData()•preprocessData()2. MLModel•trainModel()•predict()3. Visualizer•plotGraph()4. UserInterface•displayResults()These classes interact with each other to perform data processing, prediction, and visualization.3.FuncRonal Modeling Data Flow Diagrams (DFDs) are used to represent how data ﬂows through the system.Level 0 DFD (Context Diagram)In the context diagram, the entire system is represented as a single process.External Entity:•UserProcess:•Stock Price Prediction SystemFlow: User provides input → System processes data → System returns prediction resultsLevel 1 DFDThe system is divided into multiple processes:1.Data Collection2.Data Preprocessing3.Model Training4.Prediction Generation5.VisualizationData Stores•Historical Stock Data•Prediction ResultsData Flow Description•User inputs stock request•Data is collected and stored•Preprocessing cleans the data•Model generates prediction•Output is displayed in graphical formDepartment of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 7  Chapter 5 Project design 1.Architectural Design The architectural design of the AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on system deﬁnes the overall structure of the system and how diﬀerent components interact with each other. The system follows a modular architecture to ensure clarity, scalability, and ease of maintenance. System Architecture Overview The system is divided into the following main modules: 1. Input Module This module is responsible for collec.ng historical stock price data. The data is fetched from reliable sources such as Yahoo Finance and stored in a structured format (CSV/database). The input includes a&ributes such as date, open price, close price, high price, low price, and trading volume. 2.User Interface Design This module performs data preprocessing and feature engineering. It includes:•Handling missing values•Removing duplicate data•Converting date formats•Normalizing numerical values•Creating additional features such as moving averagesThis step ensures that the data is clean and suitable for machine learning models.3. Prediction ModuleThis module contains machine learning models used for prediction. The models are trained using historical data and are capable of identifying patterns in time-series data. After training, the models generate predictions for future stock price trends.4. Visualization ModuleThis module is responsible for presenting the results in a graphical format. It displays:•Predicted stock prices•Actual stock prices•Comparison graphsThis helps users easily understand the performance of the model.5. User Interface ModuleThis module provides an interactive platform for users. It allows users to input data, request predictions, and view results in a user-friendly manner.System Flow (Architecture Flow)Data Collection → Data Preprocessing → Feature Engineering → Model Training → Prediction → Visualization → User OutputThis ﬂow represents how data moves through the system from input to output.5.2 User Interface DesignThe user interface (UI) of the system is designed to be simple, interactive, and user-friendly. It allows users to easily interact with the system and view prediction results.Main Features of the GUI1.Input Section•Allows users to select stock or dataset•Option to trigger prediction2.Dashboard•Displays stock price trends•Shows predicted vs actual graphs3.Graph Visualization•Line charts representing stock trends•Clear comparison between predicted and actual values4.Result Section•Displays predicted values•Shows accuracy or performance metrics5.Navigation•Simple and clean layout•Easy to use buttons and controlsDesign Considerations•Usability: Interface should be easy to use for beginners•Responsiveness: Should work on different screen sizes•Clarity: Graphs and results should be easy to understand•Performance: Fast loading and smooth interaction
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 8  Chapter 6 ImplementaRon 1.Algorithms / Methods Used This project uses Machine Learning techniques to analyze historical stock price data and predict future trends. The following methods and algorithms are used:1. Data PreprocessingData preprocessing is performed to clean and prepare the dataset. It includes:•Handling missing values•Removing duplicate entries•Converting date formats•Normalizing data2. Feature EngineeringAdditional features are created to improve model performance, such as:•Moving averages•Lag values•Price differences3. Machine Learning AlgorithmThe project uses Linear Regression for prediction.Linear Regression is a supervised learning algorithm that establishes a linear relationship between input variables and output variables. It predicts future values based on historical trends. Formula:y = mx + c Where:  y = predicted value x = input feature m = slope c = intercept4. Model Training and Testing•Dataset is divided into training and testing sets•Model is trained using training data•Accuracy is evaluated using testing data2.Working of the project The system works in the following steps: 1.Historical stock data is collected from Yahoo Finance 2.Data is preprocessed and cleaned 3.Features are created for be&er predic.on 4.Machine learning model is trained 5.Predic.ons are generated 6.Results are displayed using graphs Sample Code (Python ImplementaRon) import pandas as pd import numpy as np import yﬁnance as yf from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression import matplotlib.pyplot as plt # Step 1: Data Collec.on data = yf.download("TCS.NS", start="2021-01-01", end="2024-01-01") # Step 2: Preprocessing data = data[['Close']] data.dropna(inplace=True) # Step 3: Feature Engineering data['Predic.on'] = data['Close'].shi`(-30) X = np.array(data.drop(['Predic.on'], axis=1))[:-30] y = np.array(data['Predic.on'])[:-30] # Step 4: Train Model model = LinearRegression() model.ﬁt(X, y) # Step 5: Predic.on predic.ons = model.predict(X) # Step 6: Visualiza.on plt.ﬁgure(ﬁgsize=(10,5)) plt.plot(y, label="Actual") plt.plot(predic.ons, label="Predicted") plt.legend() plt.show() 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 9  Chapter 7 Results The results of the AI-Based Stock Price Trend Prediction system demonstrate the effectiveness of machine learning techniques in analyzing historical stock data and predicting future trends.7.1 Output of the SystemThe system generates the following outputs:•Predicted stock price values•Actual stock price values•Graphical comparison of predicted vs actual trendsThe results are displayed in the form of line graphs, which help in visualizing the trend of stock prices over time.7.2 Graphical RepresentationThe system uses graphical visualization to compare predicted and actual stock prices.•The actual stock prices are represented by one line•The predicted stock prices are represented by another lineThe comparison graph clearly shows how closely the predicted values match the actual values.7.3 Performance AnalysisThe performance of the model is evaluated by comparing predicted values with actual values.•The model is able to capture general trends of stock prices•Minor deviations are observed due to market volatility•Prediction accuracy depends on the quality of input data7.4 Observations•The model performs well in identifying overall trends•Sudden market ﬂuctuations are not accurately predicted•Predictions are more reliable for short-term trends•Data preprocessing improves prediction accuracy7.5 Limitations of Results•Predictions are based only on historical data•External factors like news, politics, and global events are not considered•The model may not perform well during sudden market changes7.6 Summary of ResultsThe system successfully demonstrates the application of machine learning in stock price trend prediction. Although the predictions are not perfectly accurate, the model provides a reasonable approximation of stock price movements and helps in understanding market behavior.
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 10  Chapter 8 Conclusions and Future Scope 1.Conclusion The AI-Based Stock Price Trend Predic.on project successfully demonstrates the applica.on of Ar.ﬁcial Intelligence and Machine Learning techniques in analyzing historical stock market data and predic.ng future trends. The system is capable of processing large volumes of .me-series data, iden.fying pa&erns, and genera.ng predic.ons based on learned rela.onships. Through this project, various stages such as data collec.on, preprocessing, feature engineering, model training, and visualiza.on have been implemented eﬀec.vely. The use of machine learning algorithms helps in understanding how past stock price behavior can be used to es.mate future trends. The graphical comparison of predicted and actual values provides a clear insight into the model’s performance. Although the system produces reasonable predic.ons, it is important to note that stock markets are highly vola.le and inﬂuenced by many external factors such as economic condi.ons, poli.cal events, and market sen.ment. These factors are not fully captured by the model, which limits the accuracy of predic.ons. Overall, this project serves as a valuable learning experience and provides a strong founda.on in .me-series analysis, machine learning, and data visualiza.on. It highlights both the capabili.es and limita.ons of AI-based approaches in ﬁnancial forecas.ng. 2.FutureScope There are several possible improvements and extensions that can be made to enhance the system:•Use of Deep Learning Models: Advanced models such as Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) can be used to improve prediction accuracy by capturing long-term dependencies in data.•Real-Time Data Integration: The system can be extended to use real-time stock data instead of only historical data, making predictions more dynamic and useful.•Sentiment Analysis: Incorporating news articles, social media data, and market sentiment using Natural Language Processing (NLP) can improve prediction accuracy.•Advanced Feature Engineering: Technical indicators such as RSI, MACD, and Bollinger Bands can be added to enhance model performance.•Improved User Interface: The system can be enhanced with a more interactive and responsive user interface for better user experience.•Deployment as a Web Application: The project can be deployed as a fully functional web application accessible to users online.
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 11  Bibliography [1] Yahoo Finance, “Historical Stock Data of Tata Consultancy Services (TCS),” Available: https://ﬁnance.yahoo.com[2] F. Chollet, Deep Learning with Python, Manning Publications, 2018.[3] T. Hastie, R. Tibshirani, and J. Friedman, The Elements of Statistical Learning, Springer, 2009.[4] Scikit-learn Documentation, “Machine Learning in Python,” Available: https://scikit-learn.org[5] Wes McKinney, Python for Data Analysis, O’Reilly Media, 2017.[6] J. Brownlee, “Time Series Forecasting with Machine Learning,” Machine Learning Mastery, Available: https://machinelearningmastery.com[7] S. Russell and P. Norvig, Artiﬁcial Intelligence: A Modern Approach, Pearson, 2016.[8] Pandas Documentation, “Data Analysis Library,” Available: https://pandas.pydata.org Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 12 BIBLIOGRAPHY BIBLIOGRAPHY Journal 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 13 IJSRD - International Journal for Scientific Research & Development| Vol. 4, Issue 01, 2016 | ISSN (online): 2321-0613 M2M Communication - Power Link Technology Pratiksha Aslekar1 Priyanka Londhe2 Ashwini Gaikwad3 1,2,3PICT Pune Abstract—  We a r e d e s c r i b i n g a b o u t M 2 M communication.M2M communication is nothing but machine communicates with each other. They can send and receive data between each other. In our project we are using 2 Raspberry pi B+ as client and server. One machine acts as a server (MN) and another acts as a client (CN). Raspberry pi has more important features, so we are using it. To have the faster communication between these we use Powerlink protocol stack. It helps in transmission of time critical data. It is faster than Ethernet. Because of these reasons these solutions are commonly referred to as “real-time industrial Ethernet” technologies. POWERLINK is now considered as one of the most successful real-time industrial Ethernet system. Key words: Computer Network, Wired and Wireless Communication, Powerlink Protocol Stack I.INTRODUCTION In today’s world everyone wants fast data transfer. There are various technologies which are helping in fast data transfer .we are using PowerLink protocol stack. PowerLink stack helps us in sending time critical data .It helps to send data faster than Ethernet .Powerlink is one network for all. This protocol stack is implemented on any type of device. It is easy to understand. PowerLink protocol stack provides many important features like hot plugging, easy installation and choice of network topology. We are implementing PowerLink protocol stack on Raspberry pi B+. Raspberry pi is easy to use ,It’s having linux as its operating system.Linux have less delay as compared to windows so we are using linux and. II.M2M  
Fig. 1: Machine to Machine Communication Machine-to-Machine(M2M) communication can be said as it is a form of data communication that involves one or more objects that do not mandatorily require human intervention in their communication process. M2M is also named as Machine Type Communication (MTC) and it is completely different from the current communication models in the such way that it involves: −New market scenarios. −Less costs. −Less effort. −Very large number of communicating terminals. −little traffic per terminal. With tremendous amount of growth in M2M large amount of devices are connected with each other.The connectivity is embedded into day-to-day lives.These devices can send or receive data among each other at particular time interval. A.Key features of M2M Following are the key features of M2M communication system are given below: a)Low Mobility: M2M Devices move only within a certain region. b)Time Controlled: These devices send or receive data only at specific periods c)Packet Switched : Here Network operator to provide packet switched service with or without an MSISDN d)Online small Data Transmissions: M2M Devices frequently send or receive small amounts of data. e)Low Power Consumption: To improve the ability of the system to efficiently service M2M application. B.Applications of M2M The applications of M2M covers multiple areas and the areas in which M2M is used currently are given below: a)Tracing and Tracking:, Order Management, Fleet Management pay as you drive,its also used in Asset Tracking, Navigation, Traffic optimization/steering, Traffic information, Road tolling. b)Payment: Point of sales, Vending machines, Gaming machines c)Secured connections: It is used in Surveillances, Alarm systems, Access control, Car/driver security. d)Health: Monitoring important signs, Supporting the aged or handicapped, Web, Remote diagnostics, Access Telemedicine points e)Remote Maintenance/Control: Lighting, Sensors,Pumps, Valves, Elevator control, Vending machine control, Vehicle diagnostics III.POWERLINK Over the course of the last two decades, it has become very hard to keep track of the many fieldbus systems that are developed in the industry of automation specifically for different purposes of factory production control process and. Yet there remain various constraints that are impeding their performance. Demand has become more pressing for a reliable communication system that offer high flexibility and also across-the-board compatibility. A new solution in this seam was also expected to allow for ongoing improvements and upgrades in future. Ethernet was the 1st to rise to this challenge: it was a tested and tried technology that widely standardized to boot and was free of patents. Moreover, it had tremendous potential to serve as a consistent, integrated solution of communication that could be supported for the interconnection of the process, control and field levels. Nevertheless, when standard Ethernet is combined with an 
All rights reserved by www.ijsrd.com 1036M2M Communication - Power Link Technology (IJSRD/Vol. 4/Issue 01/2016/288) Internet protocols like TCP and IP is unsuitable for data transmission in hard real time. It is also possible that Data traffic can also be delayed in unforeseeable ways due to the CSMA/CD Detection mechanism. An integral part of the Ethernet standard IEEE 802.3, this helps prevent data collisions on the bus that can happen in Ethernet environments due to the nature of Ethernet transmissions. In order to progress Ethernet-based, but real-time capable fieldbuses, manufacturers have pursued various approaches in their so that delays can be eliminated.It (PowerLink) has now become one of the most successful real-time Ethernet for industries systems in the today’s world.  
Fig. 2: Industrial Ethernet With more than 1.1 million POWERLINK systems that are installed, POWERLINK is the worldwide leader for real-time Ethernet results. Complete openness, max performance and unmatched features are the reasons for POWERLINK's success. POWERLINK will sake from the long term evolution of Ethernet technology without even requiring any further investment. POWERLINK fully supports standard TCP/IP protocols. It supports because of the fact that TCP/IP runs on a dedicated communication channel, it ensures that guaranteed bandwidth for TCP/IP without affecting hard real-time data exchange.Based on standard Ethernet the EPSG decision is to standardize a technology fully acquiescent with IEEE 802.3 is a safe choice for the future. 
 Fig. 3: PowerLink Features POWERLINK will sake from the long-term evolution of Ethernet technology without requiring any further investment. It has unmatched features Carrying together Ethernet, CANopen, and hard real-time capabilities, POWERLINK integrates advantages and features from 3 different worlds. The core of POWERLINK technology includes numerous unmatched features - a)Redundancy b)hot plugging c)direct cross-traffic d)multiplexing e)poll response chaining Maximum performance POWERLINK provides max performance with cycle time down to 100 µs and system synchronization is also below 100 ns. In addition to being able to connecting up to 240 nodes in a single network, POWERLINK networks can be connected and can be fully synchronized to infinitely expanding networking capabilities. A.Open POWERLINK Stack The open POWERLINK stack is a POWERLINK stack that is developed by SYS TEC electronic. SYS TEC they published the POWERLINK stack under the Open-Source BSD license. It (open POWERLINK) contains all services and functionalities that are required for implementing a POWERLINK MN and CN. PowerLink supports multiple operating systems and platforms like Linux, Windows and other .Although there are Linux solutions that available for other Ethernet based fieldbuses, these are mostly Linux drivers for proprietary hardware and with the OpenPOWERLINK stack a pure software based solution that is available which works on a standard PC and no proprietary hardware is needed. 
Fig. 5: Open Powerlink Software Architecture IV .EV ALUATING THE PERFORMANCE A.Industrial Ethernet On Raspberry Pi Industrial Ethernet POWERLINK An Industrial Ethernet protocol that allows to deterministically exchange that process data in real time. POWERLINK is the only hard real-time Industrial Ethernet protocol is available in Open Source for both, i.e.Master and Slave configurations. It is based on standard Ethernet and consequently runs on any kind of hardware and software platform. B.Raspberry Pi2 The Raspberry Pi2 can be considered as a small and cheap single-board PC. Apart from the ARM Coretex-A7 quad-core , CPU peripherals such as some GPIOs and an Ethernet port are also available on the board. Due to its low prize and 
1037All rights reserved by www.ijsrd.comM2M Communication - Power Link Technology (IJSRD/Vol. 4/Issue 01/2016/288) wide availability, the Raspberry Pi2 B+ is an perfect platform for small and home automation projects Because it has more powerful features like: 1)More GPIO: The GPIO header has grown to 40 pins, while maintaining the same pin out for the 1st 26 pins as the Model A and Model B. 2)More USB: We are now having 4 USB 2.0 ports, which is compared to 2 on the B Model , and better hotplug and over current behavior. 3)Lower power consumption. By substituting linear regulators with switching ones we have reduced power consumption between 0.5W and 1W. 4)Micro SD:The old friction-fit SD card socket which is replaced with a much nicer push-push microSD version. C.Network Architecture In our project, the openPOWERLINK master is connected to two openPOWERLINK slaves by using a switch or a router. A PC which is consisting of windowscan is also possible to be connected to the switch for capturing the packets from the POWERLINK network.Basically in our project ,we are trying to make shop floor more intelligent by using embedded device like Raspberry pi B+ .It will capture data at microseconds in order to keep track of products developed. The data is collected using sensors like RTD,Thermocouple and that data is stored in the PC. In this case,we are using 2 Rasberry Pi B+ one will act as a MN and other will be acting as slave(CN).It is basically a client-server application. 
Fig. 6: Network architecture: open POWERLINK on Raspberry Pi2 V.ADV ANTAGES 1)Manager paperless shop floor: Now-a-days shop floors are usually handled by keeping the records of the products delivered at a particular time. This record may be biased as it is entered by supervisor. 2)Ensure Consistency: The data collected is consistent. 3)Less prone to errors: The collected data is timely and accurate. VI.APPLICATIONS 1)Intelligent ShopFloor -Here in this project, we are actually making intelligent shopfloor. 2)Telemedicine 3)Traffic Control 4)Industry Servicing VII.CONCLUSION We have used Power Link technology for communication between two devices. Planning and development of the network transmission is integral to Powerlink. Powerlink is continuing to develop its engagement process with non-network providers and where possibly expand the use of non-network solutions to address all future limitations within the transmission network. Powerlink has responded to feedback by providing enhanced information on non-network alternatives. Powerlink will also continue to request non-network results from market participants. . M2M communication is the PowerLink protocol stack. It is middleware between the application and hardware. Creating the PowerLink protocol stack and sending, receiving the data packets between MN and CN.Hence we have successfully implemented intelligent client-server relation in two Raspberry Pi. VIII.FUTURE SCOPE We will try to implement this on shopfloor to make it more intelligent.Today shopfloors are managed by taking records of products at a particular time. These record may be biased. For having the transparency in the workers and management at the top .In this scenerio, it will give details about the products to top management whenever they request for it. It will provide details about the products that have been developed on particular time. So management will get correct data and it is not biased. It is a very helpful solution. REFERENCES 1.Paper on “M2M Communication” 2.Analysis of Ethernet Powerlink Wireless Extensions which are Based on the IEEE 802.11 WLAN, Lucia Seno, and Claudio Zunino , Stefano Vitturi, Jan 2010 3.Application of California that are ISO Transmission Assessment Economic Methodology (TEAM) for the Sunrise Powerlink Project March 2011 4.Energy Efficiency in Industrial Ethernet: It is the Case of Powerlink , Pedro Reviriego, Member Juan Antonio Maestro, IEEE,Member and, IEEE,August   2012 5.Application of Ethernet Powerlink used for Communication in a Linux RTAI Open CNC system Krystian Erwi´nski, Marcin Paprocki, L M. Grzesiak , Senior Member, IEEE, Kazimierz Karwowski, and Andrzej Wawrzak , May 2012. 
1038All rights reserved by www.ijsrd.comBIBLIOGRAPHY BIBLIOGRAPHY Conference 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 17  Acknowledgements Some text ... 
 Department of Computer Engineering & ApplicaRons 2024-28 Batch 18